foreign
[Music]
access foils released their new Spitfire
front Wings about two months ago and
with these foils they really try to push
the limits of the wave riding
capabilities of foils
since I received them almost every
session I've been out on one of the four
smaller sizes in the range the 900 the
840 the 780 and the 720 Spitfire
um I've used quite a lot of combinations
with different rear Wings different
lengths of fusion lashes
and also I switched back to the art
series and to the HBS series for
comparison
so now it's time to to give you guys my
review about these front Wings what I
think of them
for rules it four and in what kind of
conditions you can really use these
wings and you can make the most out of
them the first setup I tried was a
Spitfire 840 I combined it with a
advanced fuselage Ultra short and 375
Progressive rearing
um that seemed like a logical choice to
start with because previously the art
999 is the model uh I used mostly and
840 has a similar service area as the
r99
but the first thing I noticed when I
went out with this Spitfire 840 it
needed a little bit more speed to get up
so but actually when I was up everything
actually became easier and wave riding
became real magic
so
just needed a little bit more speed to
get going but then transitions
became so much easier because the art
series isn't the most forgiving Wing
front Wing out there and with the
Spitfire it has a well it's a bit
thicker it's a bit the short is wider
I felt it's really easier when you're
doing stuff on the water to keep to that
it stays up really more easy also
with art when you change the the angle
of the foil quite quick it's easier to
stall and with the Spitfire it's really
more forgiving
um and once it's up and going uh because
it has extra lift
um it does feel like it goes it can't go
as fast as as the art series uh also
when Rave riding like the Spitfire is
like that session it really became the
best wave riding session I had in a long
time
um every wave I have to say with our
theories I sometimes managed to you know
you because it has a lot of Glides you
just write the the the non-breaking ways
in there in the rear and
um I'm guilty to that that you start
riding less and less the Breaking part
of the wave and with the Spitfire
every time I had a wave I really tried
to push my limits and I really felt like
it wanted to be in the pocket of the
wave so close to the Breaking part and
just ride the wave in a more natural way
but I really did feel like I had to be
careful in a way of
uh I had to like learn to control the
the extra lift this foil would provide
so you can you can hit the foil more
aggressive in turns compared to the art
because the Arts is quite slippery uh
um
fronting if you like to do that so if it
pushes really hard it just you push it
through the water and you're gone with
the Spitfire you really need to give it
enough push because otherwise when the
wave gets steep makes you really need to
put all of your weight on the front on
your front foot in time because it just
provides a lot of lift
once you're used to that you can really
convert that energy that extra lift into
turning more aggressive so that's a
really big difference if you compare it
to the art
um which if that's too much for you and
the art is more of a like like it's high
aspects for you if you're like learning
to
um if you're into learning wave riding I
would I wouldn't recommend this Spitfire
for for your idea yet because it has
this extra push you really need to
control it the HPS series is really made
for that so the HPS series of access
photos is actually one of the easiest
foils out there the largest sizes can be
really used for people that just started
out with wing foiling if you have the
feeling to get up and try try your first
turns you grab one of the large HPS
series that's that's a really easy foil
to get going
I do believe that the 375 Progressive
rearing is too large for this setup so
during the same session I switched to a
new access foil skinny 360 45 rear wing
these rear rings are much thinner the
short is really small
uh These Wings when I was wave riding
gave me a lot more control
but I had to say when I was going in a
straight line
um it did feel a little bit slippery the
perfect Spitfire 840 setup next session
I went out I took a crazy short at one
fuselage combined with a 325 Progressive
tail wing and for me this was the the
perfect setup for the 840 the balance
was very well going a straight line and
also when wave riding it just felt
perfect
um a friend of mine also used the the
skinny 362 50
and for him that setup also works really
well I haven't tried that one myself but
um as the service areas are getting
close to each other I can imagine that
it does
however the month was Crazy on Spitfires
when they came in and a friend of mine
came down from the Caribbean and he just
really needed this setup as well so I
sold it to him and he went out with it
on Curacao and before it was on the
Tacoma foils and
for the first time he used it he was in
love with these foils so he thinks these
photos are much better for wave riding
than what he had
next front training the Spitfire 780 I
combined it with a black out front
fuselage Ultra short and a skinny 360 45
wearing
um I really felt I needed a smaller
front Wing when the wind was really up
because the 840 would uh didn't feel
like it wanted to go faster like when I
was in 25 knots plus conditions
um it really felt a bit draggy so I went
down on size took the 780 out and from
that moment on the control was back in
in really windy conditions
and actually when the wind would drop a
little bit I didn't feel much difference
in the speed or power that it needed to
get up and going compared to the 840 so
for me the 780s actually became my
overall uh wing for front Wing using it
in quite a lot of conditions
um
for Rave riding of course uh it's it's
this one is even more amazing than 840
that's always very go down on the foil
and it provides enough lift for you a
smaller foil always feels better you
know it's it feels more maneuverable it
feels faster
of course when doing transitions stuff
you have to be a little bit more quick
because there's just less surface area
to to keep you up the 780 has a surface
area of
um I thought 900 towards 902 to be exact
so of course it's smaller but a lot of
people they are probably less than 80
kilos a 780 if you once you once your
level of foiling is up with weighing
foiling it's actually not that small a
900. so that was quite interesting so I
was thinking okay it is 780 that was the
smallest one in the theory I could feel
even me when the wind is up I could use
a smaller front Wing
um I noticed one in the brochure it
wasn't on the website yet and it said it
was a Spitfire 720
so I just ordered it and with the next
delivery a couple of weeks later at the
720 arrived
so
I took it out
on the same day it came in because it
was like 30 wins 30 knots of wind
and
also with the access foils Spitfire 720
everything went actually quite easy uh
getting up on the foil again
um I didn't feel much difference again
to the to the 780 probably because I do
these little steps that's a luxury not
everybody has but
um
especially when you're a lighter guy and
the wind is up you want the photo that's
not too large and 720 has a service area
of
8 15 and
for a lot of people this is a good size
when it's really windy if you're a
really light guy I could imagine you
would even like a smaller Spitfire front
Wing I don't know if accessport is
coming with them they probably do
because the series are huge
um of course for prone foiling and uh
well especially for prone foiling and
subfoiling you don't want you don't need
smaller front Rings I'd say or or you
have to be a really light guy but
um
that's something that said
I have used the Spitfire 840 with the
with the subfoiling as well and I really
noticed compared to an r99 I used in the
same session
it really needed a lot more speed to get
up and go
um
so if you into Pro foiling don't take
the same size as you're used to actually
take size larger I'd say also for soup
boiling especially
but the 720
um
of course with transitions I needed to
be even faster
um
I really like this one for jumping
actually all Spitfire range I like it
for jumping because it has quite a bit
of profile in it it's quite thick and it
provides that lift if you can get speed
in it
um it you really need to control that
like with your front foot a lot so at
the moment you want to release it just
pops you up really easy
a perfect setup for me for the 720 and
780 Spitfire is actually uh with the
advanced crazy short fuselage combined
with the 360 45 rear wing a combination
I haven't tried yet is the the
progressive 325 Towing that one might
work pretty well for Wing foiling I have
to say I did try the progressive 300
rearing but going in a straight line it
didn't feel balanced at all when wave
riding it was felt really good so if
you're a prone or something
during the Progressive rearing might
work really well but for wing foiling it
just goes between all directions so
let's try the 360 45 or one larger I'd
say
depending on what you want to do if you
want to do a long
long pumping distances with it it gets
one bigger otherwise the 360 40 by 5
works really well for the set boat to
720 and the 780.
the Spitfire 900
as for most sessions even on the really
light windows I will be using art 999
most of the time
as the 840 Spitfire wouldn't get me
going as quick as the art I did feel
like I had to try another Spitfire from
the wing a larger one but it didn't go
on the go too large because a lot of the
larger phone rings always disappoint me
because once you're used to smaller
front Wings they just feel so slow
so I went up only one step to the 900.
um it feels like it goes up as quickly
as the r99 the service area is 1080 and
one's up and going
um it it really doesn't want to go down
anymore everything playing around
transitions little jumps
it's almost impossible to to get
to drop off the foil also when you jump
you hit the water again it just pops up
again so you really need to be aware of
that it has a lot of lift
um
in every light wind session that I owned
out with the 900s the the wind would
pick up and I did notice I had to switch
down uh to a smaller Spitfire model
the range isn't of use is just not as
wide as with the art okay if you're not
as picky you can you could I could still
have used this front ring because it
just screws up and down easily but I was
doing jumps and you just want to go as
fast as possible before you get out of
the water and then with the winds
increasing the wing being big with all
this power I just couldn't convert it
into speed that well so I really felt
like
um I had to go with a smaller front ring
and then everything would go really
smooth again so if I would compare it to
the art again the range of use is just a
bit smaller
but again
the riding ways with this Spitfire even
the 900 it's just magic
uh it just gives you such a incredible
natural wave right feel to it so
if you completely into wave riding get
Spitfires
otherwise go for the art because the
range of use is just wider conclusion
I would recommend the Spitfire foils for
advanced riders that are into wave
riding so you already know how to wave
right and you want to improve on your
skills
what I've noticed every time I went out
with a splitfire my own skills would
improve a lot
my own personal Journey for foiling I
went to a new level and it went to a
certain level I'm really happy about in
two months but I can feel it still I can
still progress a lot
if you are new into wave writing
um I wouldn't recommend the specify
foils uh stick with the HBS foils they
have been out a bit longer from access
foils but they are really easy for us
and the range of use is really wide